MM-27120 - Document how to use external database and filestore with Mattermost Operator (#4113)
mattermost/docs: source/install/install-kubernetes-mattermost.rst

Save the file as ``mattermost-installation.yaml``.

> To configure the Mattermost Installation with external database and filestore refere to `Configuring external database and filestore (Recommended)`_ before proceeding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the Mattermost Installation with an external database and filestore refer to `Configuring external database and filestore (Recommended)`_ before proceeding.
```

There's a link missing here - is that intentional or is it a reference to another section of the document?

Author: Yes, it is a link to another section of the document.

> **3. Apply the Installation Manifest File**

Author: This is from a different list (not modified by this PR) where all points are formated as this one, should we change them all?

Navigate to the ``ingressName`` URL in your browser and use Mattermost.

Configuring external database and filestore (Recommended)
----------------------------------------------------------

> When installing Mattermost with Mattermost Operator for production scenario it is recommended to use an external database and filestore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When installing Mattermost using the Mattermost Operator in a production scenario, it's recommended that you use an external database and filestore.
```

> **1. Create database Secret**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create database secret
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

> The database Secret needs to be created in the namespace that will hold the Mattermost Installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The database secret needs to be created in the namespace that will hold the Mattermost installation.
```

> The Secret should contain the following data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secret should contain the following data:
```

.. csv-table::
    :header: "Key", "Description", "Required"

    "DB_CONNECTION_STRING", "Connection string to the database.", "true"
    "MM_SQLSETTINGS_DATASOURCEREPLICAS", "Connection string to read replicas of the database.", "false"

>     "DB_CONNECTION_CHECK_URL", "The URL used for checking that the database is accessible.", "false"

Reviewer 2: Might be worth adding a note here that `DB_CONNECTION_CHECK_URL` is often the same as `DB_CONNECTION_STRING`

Author: There is a note below example secret https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/4113/files#diff-ac678edad9006c078b03da9e586c48bd39bb15913a0a56e1d6f1852846148ce4R150
Not sure if you have missed it or you prefer to add this information to the table?

Reviewer 2: Oh yeah I missed that 👍

> Example Secret for AWS Aurora compatible with PostgreSQL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example secret for AWS Aurora compatible with PostgreSQL:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: v1
  data:
    DB_CONNECTION_CHECK_URL: cG9zdGdyZXM6Ly91c2VyOnN1cGVyX3NlY3JldF9wYXNzd29yZEBteS1kYXRhYmFzZS5jbHVzdGVyLWFiY2QudXMtZWFzdC0xLnJkcy5hbWF6b25hd3MuY29tOjU0MzIvbWF0dGVybW9zdD9jb25uZWN0X3RpbWVvdXQ9MTAK
    DB_CONNECTION_STRING: cG9zdGdyZXM6Ly91c2VyOnN1cGVyX3NlY3JldF9wYXNzd29yZEBteS1kYXRhYmFzZS5jbHVzdGVyLWFiY2QudXMtZWFzdC0xLnJkcy5hbWF6b25hd3MuY29tOjU0MzIvbWF0dGVybW9zdD9jb25uZWN0X3RpbWVvdXQ9MTAK
    MM_SQLSETTINGS_DATASOURCEREPLICAS: cG9zdGdyZXM6Ly91c2VyOnN1cGVyX3NlY3JldF9wYXNzd29yZEBteS1kYXRhYmFzZS5jbHVzdGVyLXJvLWFiY2QudXMtZWFzdC0xLnJkcy5hbWF6b25hd3MuY29tOjU0MzIvbWF0dGVybW9zdD9jb25uZWN0X3RpbWVvdXQ9MTAK
  kind: Secret
  metadata:
    name: my-postgres-connection
  type: Opaque

.. note:: For PostgreSQL the connection is checked with `pg_isready <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.3/app-pg-isready.html>`__ so the ``DB_CONNECTION_CHECK_URL`` is the same as connection string.

>    For MySQL the check is performed via HTTP call therefore ``DB_CONNECTION_CHECK_URL`` should be an HTTP url.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For MySQL the check is performed via HTTP call therefore ``DB_CONNECTION_CHECK_URL`` should be an HTTP URL.
```

**2. Create filestore Secret**

> The filestore Secret needs to be created in the namespace that will hold the Mattermost Installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The filestore secret needs to be created in the namespace that will hold the Mattermost installation.
```

> The Secret should contain the following data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secret should contain the following data:
```

.. csv-table::
    :header: "Key", "Description", "Required"

>     "accesskey", "Filestore access key.", true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "accesskey", "Filestore access key.", "true"
```

>     "accesskey", "Filestore secret key.", true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "accesskey", "Filestore secret key.", "true"
```

> Example Secret for AWS S3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example secret for AWS S3:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: v1
  data:
    accesskey: QUNDRVNTX0tFWQo=
    secretkey: U1VQRVJfU0VDUkVUX0tFWQo=
  kind: Secret
  metadata:
    name: my-s3-iam-access-key
  type: Opaque

> **3. Adjust Cluster Installation**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Adjust cluster installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

To instruct Mattermost Operator to use the external database, modify the following fields:

.. code-block:: yaml

  spec:
  ...
    database:
        secret: my-postgres-connection

To instruct Mattermost Operator to use the external filestore, modify the following fields:

.. code-block:: yaml

  spec:
  ...
    minio:
      externalBucket: my-s3-bucket
      externalURL: s3.amazonaws.com
      secret: my-s3-iam-access-key

> Additionaly when using Amazon S3, set the ``MM_FILESETTINGS_AMAZONS3SSE`` environment variable to ``true``:

Reviewer 2: Might also want to mention setting `MM_FILESETTINGS_AMAZONS3SSL` to true as well for any S3 users

.. code-block:: yaml

  spec:
  ...
      mattermostEnv:
      ...
      - name: MM_FILESETTINGS_AMAZONS3SSE
        value: "true"

> Example Cluster Installation configured with both external databases and filestore:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example cluster installation configured with both external databases and filestore:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: mattermost.com/v1alpha1
  kind: ClusterInstallation
  metadata:
    name: mm-example-external-db
  spec:
    size: 5000users
    ingressName: example.mattermost-example.com
    ingressAnnotations:
      kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
    version: 5.28.0
    mattermostLicenseSecret: ""
    database:
      secret: my-postgres-connection
      storageSize: 50Gi
    minio:
      externalBucket: my-s3-bucket
      externalURL: s3.amazonaws.com
      secret: my-s3-iam-access-key
      storageSize: 50Gi
    elasticSearch:
      host: ""
      username: ""
      password: ""

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Navigate to the ``ingressName`` URL in your browser and use Mattermost.

Configuring external database and filestore (Recommended)
----------------------------------------------------------

When installing Mattermost using the Mattermost Operator in a production scenario, it's recommended that you use an external database and filestore.

> **1. Create database secret**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create database secret
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

Example secret for AWS Aurora compatible with PostgreSQL:

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: v1
  data:
    DB_CONNECTION_CHECK_URL: cG9zdGdyZXM6Ly91c2VyOnN1cGVyX3NlY3JldF9wYXNzd29yZEBteS1kYXRhYmFzZS5jbHVzdGVyLWFiY2QudXMtZWFzdC0xLnJkcy5hbWF6b25hd3MuY29tOjU0MzIvbWF0dGVybW9zdD9jb25uZWN0X3RpbWVvdXQ9MTAK
    DB_CONNECTION_STRING: cG9zdGdyZXM6Ly91c2VyOnN1cGVyX3NlY3JldF9wYXNzd29yZEBteS1kYXRhYmFzZS5jbHVzdGVyLWFiY2QudXMtZWFzdC0xLnJkcy5hbWF6b25hd3MuY29tOjU0MzIvbWF0dGVybW9zdD9jb25uZWN0X3RpbWVvdXQ9MTAK
    MM_SQLSETTINGS_DATASOURCEREPLICAS: cG9zdGdyZXM6Ly91c2VyOnN1cGVyX3NlY3JldF9wYXNzd29yZEBteS1kYXRhYmFzZS5jbHVzdGVyLXJvLWFiY2QudXMtZWFzdC0xLnJkcy5hbWF6b25hd3MuY29tOjU0MzIvbWF0dGVybW9zdD9jb25uZWN0X3RpbWVvdXQ9MTAK
  kind: Secret
  metadata:
    name: my-postgres-connection
  type: Opaque

.. note:: For PostgreSQL the connection is checked with `pg_isready <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.3/app-pg-isready.html>`__ so the ``DB_CONNECTION_CHECK_URL`` is the same as connection string.
   For MySQL the check is performed via HTTP call therefore ``DB_CONNECTION_CHECK_URL`` should be an HTTP URL.

2. Create filestore secret

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

The filestore secret needs to be created in the namespace that will hold the Mattermost installation.
The secret should contain the following data:

.. csv-table::
    :header: "Key", "Description", "Required"

    "accesskey", "Filestore access key.", "true"
    "secretkey", "Filestore secret key.", "true"

Example secret for AWS S3:

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: v1
  data:
    accesskey: QUNDRVNTX0tFWQo=
    secretkey: U1VQRVJfU0VDUkVUX0tFWQo=
  kind: Secret
  metadata:
    name: my-s3-iam-access-key
  type: Opaque

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

3. Adjust cluster installation

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```
